I was recently attending a Toast Masters
meeting at my hometown Club in Colona
British Columbia and a member from the
past somebody who was attending about
four or five years ago came to a new
meeting as a guest and she was blown
away by how much the meeting had changed
and it was something I didn't even think
about because I'd been continually going
to meetings over the years but she was
blown away by the hybrid setup which was
really a result of of Co because when
covid happened we weren't able to meet
in person so we went fully virtual and
then when we came back to in-person
meetings we kept that virtual aspect
going because there are some people who
preferred to do the zoom meetings from
home there were some people who were
traveling a lot and so this allowed them
to not miss Toastmasters meetings while
on the road and she was impressed and
she should be impressed kudos to our
Sergeant at arm arms who makes this
happen each time in terms of the virtual
setup kudos to your Toast Masters Club
if you're part of a Toast Masters Club
that has a hybrid virtual setting but
her comments made me think about the
future of public speaking and how things
may change going forward so I thought
that would be the perfect opportunity to
create this video first off if you've
never landed on one of my videos before
welcome I'm glad you're here my channel
is all about public speaking and
communication I want to make you a more
impactful Communicator a better public
speaker and these YouTube videos are one
of the ways I do that if that sounds
like something that could be beneficial
to you please subscribe to my channel I
promise I'll keep putting out great
video content if you keep watching it
when it comes to the future of public
speaking I think the first obvious trend
that is here to stay is the concept of
virtual meetings many companies that
never used Zoom prior to 20 20 have
adapted and now many companies have
regular Zoom meetings and some companies
even put on conferences that are purely
virtual purely zoom and whether it's
hybrid style whether they're still in
person I think that this idea of Zoom
meetings and virtual conversations is
not going away this is something that's
here to stay so what does that mean for
you I think the first thing to keep in
mind is your setup and if you have the
luxury of having a spot at home that is
your Zoom meeting set up and it can be a
multi-purpose space maybe it's your
kitchen table but you have a nice white
background behind you or some art it's
not too cluttered it's nice to have a
setup and I'm not saying you have to
have a fancy camera and a fancy
microphone those things definitely help
but you can have your regular laptop
camera but make sure that the microphone
you're using you're speaking clearly and
loud enough into it and if possible have
that clear background and try to do the
meeting in a place that's not too echoey
because what we know is that in some
environments when it's just walls and a
wooden floor the voice really bounces
and reverberates and Echoes and that can
be a less than desirable listening
experience for the others who are on the
meeting so do what you can to ensure
that your video looks good that your
sound looks good that you are somewhere
in the middle or are one of the thirds
of the camera frame that you are clear
that you are visible these are things
that are important some mistakes I see
from time to time is people have
lighting behind them and then it's hard
to see through the camera they're almost
like a silhouette so that's the first
thing is that the future of public
speaking is going to incorporate these
virtual meetings be mindful what it
takes to be a good presenter in a
virtual meeting another thing that I
will mention is when it comes to the
camera an eye contact I'm making eye
contact with you right now because I'm
looking into the camera lens and that is
one of the differences between
traditional public speaking in front of
actual people is that you have to look
around the audience to make that eye
contact with virtual I can look one
place and I'm making eye contact with
every single person who's watching this
video so be mindful of the camera if
you're speaking don't always be looking
at the other people who are on the zoom
call because it's going to look like
you're looking down make eye contact
with them as well just as my own Toast
Masters Club has embraced hybrid
meetings I also think that's the future
of events and conferences we've seen
this time and time again over the last
couple of years but conferences will
probably offer an in-person ticket to
attend and also a virtual ticket to
attend what does this mean for you as
the speaker it may not mean too much
especially if you're not able to see the
cameras but if it's a smaller room that
you're talking to and there's a laptop
set up and you know people are tuning in
on that laptop it's to acknowledge those
people from time to time as well because
when we're public speaking in front of a
group of people in a room it's very easy
to get carried away with those
individuals and be talking to them but
if you know there's a computer over here
as well from time to time go over there
make eye contact with that camera give a
little w acknowledge the people on Zoom
at the beginning of the meeting and then
carry on with your presentation so I
think that this is going to be another
Trend that we continue to see going
forward is that pretty much every event
will offer not only in person but also
some level of virtual access the next
thing I know about the future of public
speaking is that there is no excuse for
a lack of preparedness or research
especially considering we have
productivity tools at our fingertips
like we've never had access to before of
course with the internet we can Google
anything in a heartbeat but now with AI
tools like chat GPT we can have the most
intelligent person or equivalent to the
most intelligent person help us think
and formulate ideas and come up with
different structures or different ideas
or we can take a speech that we've
written and we can put that into chat
GPT and ask it if we're missing anything
or we can make this even better so with
those types of tools at our fingertips
there is absolutely no excuse we should
be continually elevating our craft and
being better public speakers that is one
of my predictions for the future of
public speaking is that the best
speakers will be even better because
they'll incorporate some of this
technology to really wow the audience
and speaking of all the advancements in
technology another aspect is that speech
of the future will be even more
personalized for audiences so many
people voluntarily put out so much
information on social media and online
and I'm not saying to be really creepy
and go look at all of the people's
information that you're going to be
speaking to but I will say take a bit of
time and try to find great relevant
examples from some of those people you
know might be in the audience because if
you're going to speak to a company let's
say it's a company and their office has
30 employees and you do a bit of
research beforehand and you're able to
Showcase in a good light that's the
important thing here really great
examples of what their employees are
doing because they've shared that
information online and you're showcasing
that within your
presentation the audience is going to be
so impressed that you've included them
you've made it incredibly relevant for
their office but also that person you're
highlighting especially if it's a
positive thing is going to feel pretty
special that they're being called out in
a good way for doing a really great job
beyond that I think that the future
public speaking could get very
interesting in terms of being even more
virtual I talked about virtual meetings
being like a basic camera and a zoom
style but if Facebook has rebranded to
meta meaning the focus is on the meta
verse that could be really interesting
where that goes in the future there was
recently a Lex fredman interview for
example with Mark Zuckerberg and the two
of them it looked like they were in the
same room the facial expressions were so
impressive Lex was asking Mark questions
he couldn't believe that he was it was
like they were there even though they
were thousands of miles away and that
could be our future maybe that putting
on a virtual headset and feeling like
we're in the room with somebody else and
with that in mind what applies still the
basic things of public speaking that eye
contact even if it's just appearing like
you're looking at that person like
looking in the camera lens that applies
vocal tone and variety body language
whether it's an avatar of us or it's us
as a real person body language matters
all of the classic public speaking tips
and tools and training that you've done
will still apply that's my big
prediction is that in the future that
will all still be incredibly relevant to
communicate effectively in whatever
medium we're doing so I know the future
can be scary but I am confident that no
matter where we go that as I just
mentioned the fundamentals of public
speaking will remain and I think it's
just going to give us more access to
really experience new ideas in an easier
way go going back to the times where you
had to go physically in person to attend
a conference to get certain knowledge
and information that has been opened
it's wide open now it's wide open anyone
can get information from all of these
different sources which really is going
to allow us to level up as individuals
so I'm excited I'm optimistic about the
future and I'm excited for where things
are going I hope this video was fun for
you a bit of a thought and prediction
into what the future of public speaking
could look like
and some of the tools and things you
need to keep in mind in order to succeed
in that future if this video was
beneficial please consider subscribing
to my channel I will continue to try to
put out more video content that is
helpful for you thanks so much for
stopping on this video and I'll catch
you on the next one